# Amazon Comprehend

So now let's talk about Amazon Comprehend. So Amazon Comprehend is used for natural language processing or NLP, and it's a fully managed and serverless service. So it's going to use machine learning to find insights and relationships in your text. So it's going to understand the language of the text, it's going to be able to extract key phrases, places, people, brands or events, and it will try to understand how positive or negative the text is. It's going to analyze text using tokenization and also part of speech, if you need to, and it will organize a collection of text file by topics. So Amazon Comprehend Use cases you have around Comprehend is going to analyze, for example, customer interactions such as emails to find what is going to lead to a positive or a negative experience or create and group articles by topics that Comprehend will uncover itself. So Comprehend is a service we'll have a hands-on in a moment, but we have the option to have advanced settings such as custom classification. So here we define how we want Comprehend to categorize the documents for itself. So we define that. So for example We have a bunch of customer emails, and we provide several kind of categories based on the type of customer request, for example, support request or billing request or complaints and so on. And it supports many different types of documents, such as text, PDF, word, images, and so we're going to create training data, put it in Amazon S3, and then feed it into Amazon Comprehend, which is going to build and train internally a custom classifier. And then whenever a document arrives or you know whatever Where you want, then the custom classifier is going to say, "Well, this looks like a complaint document, and you've defined what complaint look like." So we can use the custom classification with real-time analysis or asynchronous analysis to have multiple documents in a batch way or just in sequence for big ones. One of Comprehend's main out-of-the-box capability is to do named entity recognition or NER. So it's to extract predefined general-purpose entities like people, places, organization. States and other standard categories from text So here is an example text, and as you can see, a lot of it is underlined. So thanks to Named Entity Recognition, we can recognize that Zangwei is a person, John is a person, any company, financial services LLC is an organization, and, for example, July the thirty-first is a date. So all these things are capabilities out of the box from Comprehend called Named Entity Recognition. So we also have the option to make Comprehend recognize custom entities. So here we want to analyze the text for specific terms and noun-based phrases. For example, you have a a document, and you want to be able to consistently extract The policy numbers or phrases that imply a customer escalation or anything related to business risk. So again, you're going to train the model with a list of the entities you look for and documents that contain them. So you give examples to comprehend, and then a custom entity recognizer is going to be trained, and then you can use it, for example, to look for policy numbers within your documents. This can be real time or asynchronous analysis. So simple comprehend just understand, that is used for natural language processing and understanding. And you have the option to have custom classifications and custom entity recognition if you train the model on top of ComplyAI. So that's it for this lecture. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.

