# Amazon DynamoDB - WCU & RCU

Kristin Now let's talk about read and write capacity modes that you need. So this is how you control your table capacities. You got two different read and write modes. You have two modes actually. The first one is called provision mode. You need to specify the read and write per second, so also called read capacity units and write capacity units. You need to plan your capacity units in advance. You're going to pay for whatever is going to be provisioned. So if you say, "I want ten read capacity units and five write capacity units," you're going to pay for that every hour, and you have the option to do auto scaling as we'll see very soon. There's the second mode called the on-demand mode, and this one will automatically have the read and the write scale up and down based on your workloads, and there's no capacity planning needed. So don't provision capacity units, they will just be there, and you're going to pay exactly for what you use, but it's going to be a lot more expensive than provision mode. So the idea is that you have different use cases, and we'll see them in this lecture in details. So you can switch between the two modes, provision and on-demand, once every twenty-four hours. So we're going to do a deep dive on both of them, so don't worry right now, it's just an introduction. But now let's do a long deep dive on provision read capacity mode. So you must provision read and write capacity units, also called RCU, which is the throughput for reads, and WCU, which is the throughput for writes. Now you have the option to set auto scaling of throughput to meet demand, so don't you think too hard about your RCU and WCU value, just say what's your target capacity usage, and DynamoDB will scale those for you. Now, in case you go over the RCU and over the WCU because you are consuming more or writing more than what you provisioned, it's completely fine because you can tap into temporarily what's called a burst capacity. But if you exhaust the first capacity, because it will be fully consumed, then you're going to get an exception called the provision throughput exceeded exception, which is very obvious about what it is. Then, in case you get these things, you need to obviously retry, and the strategy to retry your writes or your reads is called the exponential backoff retry strategy. Now let's look at WCU in detail. So the exam will ask you to perform some computations, and so therefore you need to understand the formulas to compute WCU and RCU. So one write capacity unit WCU will represent one write per second for an item of up to one kilobyte in size, and if your item is obviously larger than one kilobyte, then you're going to consume more WCU's. So let's go through examples to understand the computation, and you can pause this video if you want to do the computation on your own. So if you write ten items per second and the item size is on average two kilobytes, how many WCUs do you need? Well, we do the math, we need ten W, ten items per second, so ten times, and then the item size is two kilobytes, which we divide by one kilobyte, which is the number of WCU for one kilobyte, and you get a result of twenty WCUs. So this was a very easy example. Now in example two, we write six items per second, and this time the item size is four point five kilobytes. So it's a little bit trickier on this one. So we need six times five divided by one, which is thirty RCUs, why? Well, because the four point five kilobytes is always going to be rounded to the upper kilobyte by the number two to get an idea of how many WCUs you've consumed. So remember, you need to round to the upper kilobytes for WCUs. Now, if you write one hundred twenty items per minute and the item size is two kilobytes, the trick here is that we have items per minute, so you need to do this calculation, which is one twenty divided by sixty to get items per second, and then this gives us four WCUs. Okay, so write capacities are very basic and honestly very easy to understand. The more complicated one is going to be around reads. So first, we need to define two kinds of read modes for DynamoDB, which is a strongly consistent read and the eventually consistent read. So if you're concerned about DynamoDB, it's a serverless database, of course, but behind the scenes, there are servers, you just don't see them or manage them. So we have servers, and let's just consider three servers right now to make it very, very simple, but it's obviously a lot more, and the data is going to be distributed and replicated across all these servers. Now, if you consider your application, your application is going to do writes to one of these servers, and internally, DynamoDB is going to replicate these writes across different servers, such as server two and server three. Now, when your application reads from DynamoDB, there is a chance that you're going to read not from server one, but from server two. Number two, now two things can happen, right? If we are in eventual consistency, which is the default mode, then if we do a read, it's possible that we'll get stale data because the replication hasn't happened yet, if we're very, very quick. But after, say, one hundred milliseconds, you're good to go, obviously. But if you do a strong consistency read, you're saying, "Hey, I want to read the data just after the write," and you're going to get for sure the correct data that was just written. For this, we need to set a parameter called consistent read in our API to true, and it could be applied to get item, batch get item, get query, and scan. And why wouldn't we do this all the time? Why, why wouldn't we want to have strong consistency reads all the time? Well, it's going to consume twice the RC user, it's going to be a more expensive query, and also may have a slightly higher latency. So in charge of yourself, do I need eventually consistent reads or do I need strongly consistent reads? Now, let's talk about RCU regarding these two things. One read capacity unit, RCU, represents one strongly consistent read per second or two eventually consistent reads per second for an item of up to four kilobytes in size, which makes the computations a little bit trickier. And if your items are larger than four kilobytes, more RCUs are going to be consumed, and again, it's going to be rounded up to the nearest upper four kilobytes. So let's go through examples again. Feel free to pause the video. So if you have ten strongly consistent reads per second And the item size is four kilobytes, how many RCUs you need? Only ten times four divided by four, which is equal to ten RCUs, okay? Now, if you have sixteen event-related reads per second and the item size is twelve kilobytes, so this is a bit more complicated, this one, we're going to get sixteen divided by two times twelve divided by four, which is twenty-four RCUs. So in this example, obviously, we need to divide sixteen divided by two because we don't need because we have two event-related reads per second in one RCU, and then we divide twelve by four, which gives us twenty-four RCUs. And last example, which is ten strongly consistent reads per second with an item size of six kilobytes, okay? So this one is a little bit trickier. So what is it? Well, it's ten times eight divided by four, and why eight? Well, we round up six kilobytes to the nearest four kilobytes, so it's going to be eight kilobytes, and you have to always go up, okay? And in this case, we get ten times eight divided by four, which is two, so twenty RCUs. So now that we know about WU and RCUs, let's talk about how DynamoDB works in the backends with partitions. So DynamoDB is made of tables, and each table has partitions, and partitions are just copies of your data that live on specific servers. Now, when your application does writes into DynamoDB, what's going to happen is that your application will send a partition key, a sort key maybe, and some attributes, and all this data is going to go through a hashing algorithm, so only the partition key actually is going to go through a hashing algorithm to understand which partition to go to. So if you take the partition key of ID thirteen, it's going to go through this internal hash function of DynamoDB, and it's going to say, "Hey, anytime I see ID thirteen, this is going to go into partition one." And if you have ID forty-five in the second row, then ID forty-five is going to go through the hash function, and the hash function will say, hey, this ID forty-five should go to partition two, and this is how you get distributed. So obviously, if you have what's called a hash partition, the data is always going to be, the hash key, the data is always going to be into the same partition. So to compute the number of partitions, there are some intense formulas that you don't need to know for the exam, so let's go over them very quickly. But you compute the number of partitions by dividing the RCUs by three thousand and WCs by one thousand and adding those up. You can also have a look at how much data you have, so total size of your data set divided by ten gigabytes, and then the number of partition is going to be the max of these two things. Now, you don't need to know these formulas, so don't worry about it at all, okay? But what you need to understand though is that if you have ten partitions, then you provide, if you provision ten WCs and ten RCUs, then they're going to be spread evenly across partitions. That means that each partition is going to get one WCu and one RCu, and this is the point I want you to remember, okay? WCs and RCUs are going to be divided and spread evenly across partitions. Which brings us to throttling. So in case you exceed the RCU's or WCU's, and this is at the partition level, then you're going to get a provision throughput exceeded exception. So maybe because you have a hot key, so one partition key is being read too many times from a specific partition, which is because maybe you have a popular item or hot partitions or very large items, because obviously when WCU and RCU is computed, it depends on the item size. And so if you read or write a very large item, you're going to consume a lot of RCU or WCU. Now, solutions for attacking this provision throughput exceeded exception is number one to do exponential backoff when the exception is encountered, which is if you're using the SDK, something that's already included. Yeah, to distribute the partition keys as much as possible, which was the exercise we did in the first lecture to understand how we can choose a really good partition key. And if this is an RCU issue, because you're reading one data points on one partition very, very heavily, then we'll have a look at the feature called DynamoDB Accelerator or DAX. Now, the last mode we need to understand, and this is a much easier mode to understand, is the on-demand read/write capacity mode, which is going to automatically accept any reads and any writes, and is going to scale up and down based on your load. So there's no capacity planning needed, you don't specify the RCU or the WCU. It's unlimited, there's no throttling, but obviously this is more expensive, and you're going to charge for the actual read and write, so it's called read request units or RUs and read write request units, which is WUs. The configurations are the same, but the idea is that because we have every request that succeeds, it's not a capacity we talk about, it's just On the request. Now to give you some overview, on demand is about two point five x more expensive than pre-allocated capacity, so make sure that you have it only for specific kind of use cases, for example, unknown workloads or when it's unpredictable application traffic. So that's it for capacity modes in DynamoDB. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.