# CloudWatch Metrics

So now let's talk about Amazon CloudWatch, and the first service I want to talk about within CloudWatch is CloudWatch Metrics. So CloudWatch provides metrics for every services out there in AWS, and so therefore you can monitor everything that's happening in your account. And a metric is just a variable you want to monitor. For example, for an EC2 instance, it could be the CPU utilization, the networking, and so on. For Amazon S3, it could be your bucket size, and so on. So metrics belong to namespaces and therefore there are bucketed in two different namespaces. You have one namespace for surveys basically. So you have dimensions and there are attributes of the metrics. For example, a metric about CPU utilization can be related to a specific instance ID or a specific environment and so on. And you have up to thirty dimensions per metric. So the metrics are time-based, so therefore they must have a timestamp. And then once you have a lot of metrics, you can create a cloudwatch dashboard of metrics. So that you can see them all at once in a specific manner. Also, you can create CloudWatch custom metrics. So instead of relying on the metrics that are provided by every services in AWS, you can create your own custom metric, for example, to extract the memory usage out of EC2 instance. That is a classic use case of using a CloudWatch custom metric. The other thing you can do with your CloudWatch metrics is to stream them outside of CloudWatch. So the idea is that you want to continuously stream CloudWatch metrics to a destination of your choice. You're gonna get near real time delivery and low latency, and that destination is Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, and from there you can send it to anywhere you want. Or you can also send your CloudWatch metrics directly into a third party service provider, such as Datadog, Dynatrace, New Relic, Splunk, Sumo Logic, and so on. So how does that work? Well, your CloudWatch metrics are going to be streamed in real time into Kinesis Data Firehose, and you obviously have to set that up before it can work, and from Kinesis Data Firehose, you can, for example, send them into an Amazon S3 bucket, from which you can use Amazon Athena to analyze your data in Amazon S3, or you can use Amazon Redshift to have a data warehousing for your metrics, or Amazon OpenSearch to build dashboards from Amazon OpenSearch or do analytics there. And you can have the choice to stream all your metrics for all your namespaces Or to only filter a few namespaces in so that you only have a subset of your metrics filtered and sent to Kinesis Data Firehose. Now let's go have a look in the console. So when you are in the CloudWatch dashboard, on the left-hand side, there's metrics, and you can find all the metrics. And as you can see, we see all the namespaces in here for our metrics. If you have a look, we have based on services, for example, ELB, auto-scaling, EBS, EC2, EFS, and so on. So a lot of information given you given to you here. So if you click on EC2, and you can have a per-instance metric, just to see one metric, and I'm going to tap credits to see the CPU credit balance, for example. I will take this instance, which was creating a long time ago. And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to choose a custom range, which is going to be one month to find some data in here. Okay. So we have the data here. And so the cool thing with Flywheel Metrics is that you can just click and select the time span you want, and here we go. We're getting some information around our metrics. As you can see, I will get metrics every five minutes here, so every data point is every five minutes because detailed monitoring was not enabled for this instance, okay? But if I did enable detailed monitoring, I would get data every one minute. So this is just the basics of Flywheel Metrics, nothing too, too fancy, but we can definitely filter by time, we can view it as a different line, so stacked area or line or number or, or pie chart. You can add it to your dashboard, you can go to CS, you can share it, okay, so CloudWatch metrics is very, very handy, and you can have a look at all the metrics, you know, based on, based on the dimension you want, the resource ID you want, so you can filter everything. So that's it for CloudWatch metrics, I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture. 