# AWS Transcribe

So now let's talk about Amazon Transcribe. So as the name indicates, it allows you to automatically convert speech into text. So you pass in some audio, and automatically it's going to be transcribed into text. So you could say, "Hey, hello, my name is Stefan, and I hope you're enjoying the course." Now, how does it do it? Well, it uses a deep learning process called ASR, the Automatic Speech Recognition, to convert speech to text very quickly and accurately. And there are a few features you need to know about. The first one is that you can automatically remove any PII, so personally identifiable information, using redaction. So that means, for example, if you have someone's age or name or social security number, this can be automatically removed. And also, you can have access to automatic language identification for multilingual audio. So if you have some French, some English, some Spanish, Transcribe is smart enough to recognize all of those. So the use cases for Amazon Transcribe is to transcribe customer service calls, to To automate closed captioning and subtitling, and also to generate metadata for media assets to create a fully searchable archive. So there's a way for you to improve the accuracy of Amazon Transcribe, so we can allow Transcribe to capture domain-specific or non-standard terms, such as technical words, acronyms, and jargon. For example, say we use a speech and we say, "We can use AWS microservices," and Transcribe is giving us "A U S A microservices," which sounds a little bit like "AWS microservices," but not exactly. So how can we improve this? Well, we can have custom vocabularies for words. So here we can add specific words, phrases, or domain-specific terms. So it's very good if you have a brand name or acronyms and using those all the time. And you can increase the recognition of a new word by providing hints, such as how to pronounce it. So once we have this custom vocabulary, we can recognize very specific terms, such as AWS. The other one is around custom language models. So before that was for words, but now it's for context. So here we're going to train the transcript model on our own domain-specific text data. So that means that, for example, you have a large volume of domain-specific speech, and you are going to give Transcribe the chance to learn the context associated with a given word. Because, for example for if you are dealing with crows, so birds you may have the option to say you have a crow service, a microservice, right? But if you are doing a lot of IT, then microservice for you is one word. And so therefore, by providing a custom language model, you're not teaching new words to Amazon Transcribe. So you're giving the context of what you're trying to do, and therefore Transcribe will know what word to use. And so of course, use both for highest transcription accuracy. And so therefore, in our example, now that we have enabled a custom vocabulary and a custom language, Transcribe knows how to convert our speech to AWS microservices. Transcribe also has a toxicity detection feature, so this is machine learning powered, of course, and you can directly use a voice sample to detect toxicity. So it looks like this. The way it works is that there are two types of data being leveraged for the toxicity detection. First of all, is speech cues. So the actual tone and the pitch of the audio is being looked at, and if someone seems angry, and their voice tone is going to be of course flagged. And there's also text-based cues, for example, if someone is saying profanities or hate speech, then of course it's going to be detected. But the beauty here is that it's the combination of both the audio and the text. It is going to be helpful to describe toxicity in a sample. So you have a lot of categories that your toxicity can be classified into, for example, sexual harassment, hate speech, threat, abuse, profanity, insult, and graphic. And this feature is something that can come up at the exam, so there you go. Alright, that's it for transcribe. I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.