# Amazon Aurora and the pgvector Extension

Is it relevant to this example? It can also serve as a vector store, it turns out, with an extension. It's called the PG Vector extension. Remember that? So Aurora with PG Vector can turn Aurora into your vector store for rag systems or knowledge bases. What this does is create a new column type called vector, of all things, and it can compute distances in one of three ways: cosine, L2, or inner product. Different choices there for similarity metrics. It can also do similarity search with IVF or HNSW, both of which we discussed earlier. Context of OpenSearch, so if you want more details, go back there. And it also adds vector operators for SQL, so this is where it adds something kind of new. So this lets it do stuff that OpenSearch can't do. So if you need to do complex filtering logic on what's coming out of your vector store, you can actually write SQL expressions that can operate on those vectors directly using the PG vector extension, which is kind of cool. And this allows you to store your structured and vector data in the same place, so, you know, you can have not just chunks of data, but also structured data. Technically, you could do that with JSON too, but a little bit more native with Amazon Aurora. So that's what the big deal is with Aurora in the context of generative AI and as a vector store. And the cool thing though is that whole SQL integration thing, so I would remember that one. This could be appropriate for a smaller, medium RAG systems if you have mostly structured data. So of course, Aurora is kind of a, more of a monolith scaling that can be a little bit more of a challenge, but if you do have a smaller, medium system, and let's face it, most of us do and your data is mostly structured, this could be an appropriate choice for your vector store. So if you're choosing a vector store, Aurora with PG Vector might be the answer if you have a smaller, medium RAG system with structured data.