# Demo: SageMaker Studio, Canvas, and Data Wrangler

Just watch would be my recommendation here. So let's go to Studio, that's kind of the umbrella for everything in SageMaker, right? And you can see I already have a default user profile that I created as part of that domain, so I'm gonna go ahead and use that user profile and hit Open Studio. And here we are. I will skip the tour, cause I'm gonna give you one. And you can see there's a bunch of stuff you can do here to kind of get overview data, so feel free to go through that if you want to. but, you know, just going down the, the menu here, you see there's a bunch of things you can do. There's a set of applications you can run within Studio. Again, SageMaker Studio is just kind of an integrated development environment for machine learning within AWS. So we have a Jupyter Lab if you wanna write your own Python code or R Studio if you wanna write your own R code or Canvas, which is what we're gonna be using momentarily. Stop asking me about that. Yeah, that makes more sense. Alright, so we can see here we can look at our underlying data. We can do automatic machine learning, so if we just wanna like automatically create a model based on that data, we can do so easily. We can set up experiments to pit models against each other and try to find the best model for a given job, and we can also manage any training and evaluation jobs you might be doing from here as well. We can also set up pipelines for automating our ML workflow flows from within SageMaker Studio and view any models that we've created along the way. SageMaker JumpStart is also available from SageMaker Studio, allowing you to kick things off with pre-trained foundation models, so if you wanna build a generative AI app Applications within a notebook, you can do so from there. We'll look at that more detail as well. But for now, let's just do some classic machine learning. So let's go ahead and start with data And I wanna use Data Wrangler to aggregate and prepare my data. So I've gone ahead and uploaded some sample data into S3 already for an absenteeism data set. And this is a publicly accessible data set that I found somewhere, the UCI repository, I think it is. But it's a data set that has a bunch of information about employees, you know, how far do they live from work, how often do they work things like that, how much, even things like how much they weigh and how old they are. And they try to correlate that with their rate of absenteeism on the job, how many days off do they call in sick each year. So let's see if we can predict absenteeism. Based on the attributes of employees. Alright, so let's go ahead and run this in Canvas so you can see that they're really pushing you to run everything in Canvas within Salesforce Studio these days. So fine, let's go ahead and do that, run in Canvas. No code required, and as you'll see, we can actually prepare our data without doing much at all. We can just say in plain language and use generative AI how we want to manipulate that data and preview what that will do as we go. So that'll take a minute to spin up, so I'm gonna go ahead and pause this recording until that's ready. Alright, that did take about one minute as promised, so let's go ahead and open Canvas. And wrangle some data. Here we are. So it kinda walks us through the process here. So the first thing we need to do is import and prepare some data. We need to tell it where that data is. So let's go ahead and click on the friendly import and prepare button. Now, I know this data is tabular data, it's not an image, so it's just raw data in CSV format. And first thing we gotta do is tell it where that data lives. So there's some sample data here you can play with if you don't have any da-data of your own, but I actually do have some data of my own. So I'm gonna go ahead and say, in Amazon is three. I've got some data for you, so first we need to point to where it is. So I need to give it a URI to where my data is in S3, so I happen to have an S3 window open up here. for me, that's in my Sagemaker dash Sundog bucket. Let's use the absentee_full.csv file. It's kind of the actually no, let's use absentee_train, 'cause that's specifically for training. So I'm gonna click on that file and copy my URI. That's three. I'm gonna paste that. Yes. That's all There we go. Right. So, I've got some data. Let's go ahead and select that and hit next. This gives me a preview of what that data looks like. So, so you can see we got a bunch of columns here that are being imported from that CSV data, the distance from work service time, their age their average workload. I'd have to go back and look at the documentation for the data set to know what some of these columns really mean. Did they receive any dis-disciplinary action? What's their level of education? Do they drink? Do they smoke? Do they have a pet? Interesting, there might be interesting correlation to see if somebody has a sick pet that affects their absenteeism rate. And then the final column here, we have the absenteeism, which is the number of days out of the year that they called in sick. So, looks like it imported successfully. One thing that might be problematic though is this workload average. You can see it has commas within the numbers there that might Throw things off into thinking that it's a string instead of a number, so let's watch out for that as we go. Now, if you want to, we can do random sampling, but there aren't a whole lot of rows in here. I think it's only like five hundred or so, so no point in sampling for such a small dataset. But if you did have a larger dataset, you could do a random sample so you could sort of preview what's going to happen as you're wrangling this data a little bit more quickly. We need to give this dataset a name though. Let's call it absenteeism. We'll go ahead and import it. Alright. So again, it's kind of guiding us on what to do here. So it so this data flow, basically we have our source data from S3, we're getting imported into some sort of well, I can't even see it there 'cause it's being obscured here, but what is prompting us to get data insights? So let's go ahead and do that. You can also use Chat for data prep, but this will take us to the same place basically. So let's go ahead and get some insights about that data. So what this is gonna do is alert me to any potential issues in my data automatically. It's gonna automatically analyze this thing for things like missing data or duplicate data or outliers or whatnot. So it's kind of cool. Now, again, we can use the full dataset 'cause it's small to begin with, so I'm gonna have to use an M1 M5 4x large, fortunately, with this small amount of data, that's not gonna run for very long and cost me too much. I'll downgrade that to one instance instead to save some money. This is a regression problem, so basically, I'm saying that I'm trying to predict a number. Now I could frame that as a classification problem of like a really large number of classifications, right? Each, each individual number is a class, but let's go ahead and treat it as a regression problem. And the target column, the thing I'm trying to predict, is the absenteeism time in hours. Alright, so let's give this analysis a name. Have some tea as an ending. Data analysis, whatever. And go ahead and create that. And it says it will take about ten minutes, so again, I'm gonna pause this recording and come back when that's done. Alright, here we are ten minutes later, and it gave me some pretty interesting information about this dataset. So this did take about ten minutes, for which I'm gonna be charged for time on a fairly beefy machine learning instance in EC2. worth pointing out here that for a dataset this small, I would've been better off just analyzing it on my own desktop for free using some Python code. So, you know, don't use big expensive cloud systems if you don't need to. I'm just doing this for the purpose of illustration. But some interesting findings here. So it's summarizing the dataset here. No missing data, that's a good thing. It's also breaking down the feature types that it extracted from that data and how many features it found. Again, features are just the columns in my training data, the things that I'm using to make a prediction from. No missing data, but there were a lot of duplicate rows, which is kind of a surprise. let's go down here to the high priority warnings where it tells me what are the main issues that I need to watch out for here. One is duplicate rows, so that kinda makes me wonder how valid this data is. I don't think it's real. thirty-three percent of the data is duplicate. with that many features, it's very unlikely that that's just by chance. So I'm thinking a lot of the rows in this data were fabricated, and that's something that I should be aware of. Maybe I wanna deal with that during pre-processing Also it's alerting me that there are some potential outliers, so let's dig into that in more detail and see if that's something I wanna consider removing or not. outliers can mess up your models, but let's, let's see just how skewed it really is. Also, it's saying that a quick model built on this data didn't do very well, so the predictive power of the data I have might not be that good. And that just might mean that, well, this is fake data for one thing apparently, so maybe that's why. but it just might mean that maybe the features I have aren't predictive of absenteeism at all. Maybe it really is just random life circumstances that drive people to call in sick. Doesn't really correlate to any of this stuff. Anyway, let's take a look at some of these duplicate rows so we can see that there were ten instances out of only what was it? Six hundred and ninety-nine rows, I think it was. Yeah, six hundred and ninety-nine rows. Ten of them had the same exact Properties, which seems unlikely to me. Like, really were there ten thirty-eight year olds with exactly that workload hours per day, with exactly that hit target, with that, exactly that distance to work? I don't know. This this seems a little bit fishy. So I think I'm gonna make the choice to actually remove those duplicates when I pre-process this data. It's also alerting me to some anomalous samples here It's just warning me that it thinks that some of these Rows of data might not make sense, but if I look through it, these look like reasonable numbers to me, so I'm gonna say Probably not really an issue. These don't look like they're absolutely crazy out of bounds. They look like real people, so I'm not gonna worry about that just now. You can also look at the distribution of the target column for the actual number of hours that were called in sick for, and you can see there was an outlier here at I think that's around forty hours there. again, this seems plausible, so I'm not gonna take that as a sign that the data itself is invalid. I think it just means that this person had a really bad year. And if we go down further, we can see the results of the quick model here, and we can see that It didn't do a very good job at all in terms of accuracy on actually making predictions on data that it hasn't seen before. So the model that came up quickly wasn't of very much use which is interesting in and of itself. We can also dig into individual features here and see how they break down. And this is interesting. So this is a summary of features ordered by prediction power. So even though our model wasn't that good we can tell that the workload average per day was the biggest predictor of absenteeism. So it turns out the the more you work someone, the more likely they are to end up sick. And Also, transportation expense, so somebody needs to pay a lot of money in order to get to work, they're gonna be more likely to call in sick, apparently. Everything else, not so much, which is a little bit of a surprise, you know? Well, drink or smoke doesn't matter at all, it seems, and things like your weight, and doesn't really matter too much either. Age in height a little bit, but I mean, compared to transportation expense and workload average, clearly these are the two main drivers of the data. So even without building a formal model and just kind of visualizing and pre-processing the data already we've gained some insights into the data that we have here. And we can go and look at histograms for each one of those features individually. Again, we're just gonna eyeball it and make sure nothing's too crazy. Even though they're being flagged statistically as outliers, they're not really outside the bounds of plausibility. So, not gonna worry about that. Alright, so that was useful. so we have our little analysis here of the data that we have. Now that we've done that, we can go ahead and actually wrangle this data. So, so let's go back to our data flow here. We can see that we have our data quality and insights report, and we have our data types. So let's back up here and open this up and go ahead and let's transform this data. And hey, we can actually do that with chat with GenAI, GenAI. Let's try that. It's a new feature. Alright, so we have this handy-dandy visualization of our features and their distributions that might come in handy, but we already know from that analysis that we have some issues to deal with. We can see the steps that we're applying to our data transformation being built up here on the right. So we're starting with a given source for the data itself from S3, and we're assigning data types to those as well. So we can see already there's an issue here where that workload average is being treated as a string instead of a number, so let's see if we can fix that. now there are some, you can do this by hand, you can click on Add Transform and Select from a library of transforms here, again, there's a very large number of them that you can dig into there, but I'm gonna do it the easy way and just use chat. So let's say Transform the workload average per day Sure. From a string to a long type. Wanting for the use of commas in the numbers See what it does. Huh, so apparently it generated some code for me. It's always a good idea to double-check what generative AI does. Looks like it's just gonna strip out the commas and cast it as a long, so that seems reasonable. Let's go ahead and add that to our steps. So now we've added that step just from our GenAI chat session there automatically to transform that data in the way that we said. Let's also get rid of those duplicates 'cause I don't trust those duplicate rows. They, they seem suspicious. Just say remove duplicate rows. I could just add a transform for that, I'm sure, but it's even quicker to just type that in. Again, it generated some Python code for me to do that. Should just be one line, drop duplicates. Yep, seems reasonable. Let's add that to our steps as well. Alright, so now we've built up a flow here for processing our data or wrangling it as you might, as the case may be. So we've got all of our steps here lined up that we're gonna apply to this transformation. Let's click on our data flow and visualize that as well. Go back here. So you can see that we have our report over here, and then we forked off here to say, "I'm gonna transform this using a couple of transforms that I defined." So at this point in our data flow, we've transformed the data the way that we want, we've dealt with that incorrectly identified string column, and we've gotten rid of duplicates. And now from here, I can export that data to S3 if I want to, if I wanna use it outside of Canvas, or I can export it to a Jupyter notebook if I wanna write some code surrounding that data, or I can just click on Create Model and automatically export that data and create a model all within Canvas. Let's go ahead and do that then. Let's give this data set a name. I would say tea is in processed whatever you wanna call it, and export. Off it goes. Alright, the export succeeded, now I can create a model from that exported data. That model also needs a name, let's call it Absintheism Model. And we need to select a problem type. So this is a predictive analysis problem. I'm basically using tabular data to try to predict the number of absentee hours based on that data. it's not image analysis, obviously. It's not text analysis. I'm not trying to do text classification, and I'm not fine-tuning a foundation model either. But interesting to note that you can do this within SageMaker Canvas, right? So if I didn't want to ingest a bunch of data to fine-tune a large language model or even a small language model, I could do that here as well. But in this case, I'm doing predictive analysis, so we'll click on create. Now I need to select the column that I want to predict. That is going to be that final absenteeism time in hours. And we can double-check all this data. Sure enough, everything is numeric again, that's good. And our target column is identified. Alright, and it's actually automatically recommended the appropriate model type here. So instead of a regression model, it is saying that I'm actually better off with a category prediction model. So instead of trying to predict a floating point number, it's going to try to classify absenteeism in terms of the number of hours. Okay, I'll take your word for it. typically it makes the right choice here. So kind of AutoML in action here. And to actually build the model, we have a quick build option, which is well, quick, two to fifteen minutes, but if I want to choose accuracy over speed and I want to spend more time and money, I could do a standard build as well. But I'm gonna stick with Quick Build because I'm impatient. So go ahead and click the Quick Build button. We go. Now the data validation is completed, it's actually building the model itself, and I'll come back when that's done. And it's done, it said it failed, but it really didn't, so I'm gonna close that erroneous error message, and I'm also gonna ignore this survey. but here we have our model and what actually happened. So again, even after running that more detailed model, I came up with the same conclusions. The column impact here is saying that the transportation expe-expanse and the workload average per day are the biggest predictors of absenteeism, which is an interesting finding, isn't it? So we have our model here, and now that we have this model, we can use it to make predictions if we want to. Let's go ahead and click predict. And you can do a batch prediction or a single prediction, whatever it might be. we can click on manual. And from there, we could select a data set to be used for our predictions. So to do that, I have to make a data set for the stuff I wanna make predictions for, because it must have the same number of feature columns as the training data set. Create dataset, let's call it Absent, he isn't. Forget And we can do that from a local file or hit S3. Going back to my S3 view, see where I put that data. There's an absentee predict dot CSV file here. Let's go ahead and select that. And get a URI for that. Here you go. And so now I can select that prediction file. Preview my data set. So now that's done processing, I can select it for predictions and generate predictions. So I can see my predictions are now ready, I can click on that? Yeah, I could ship that off to QuickSite if I wanted to, or do anything under this little button here. I can download that data to do whatever I need with it. I can get a link to the place in S3 where that result was stored, or I can just preview it. Let's do that for now. And we can see that I did indeed get predictions for absenteeism based on all of this prediction data that I set in. So the data that I provided it, I had a list of transportation expenses and distances and service times and ages and everything else, but the absenteeism time column was left blank. And what this has done for me is use that model that I generated using all the training data to make predictions based on the features that I gave it. So that's pretty cool. it's also giving me sort of a measure of confidence there, the probability. It's not Not terribly confident, but given the number of classes here, you know, one for every number of hours that are possible, it's not that bad really. so this is telling me, hey, given the model that I made, I predict that this person's gonna be out two hours during this month. So pretty neat. And from here, again, I can visualize that or download the data to do what I want with it. So that is pretty cool. We used a SageMaker Canvas to use Data Wrangler to pre-process our data to build a model after transforming our data and also to make predictions based on that model. We could go further. We could actually deploy that model as well if we wanted to. So if you wanted to, we could create some inference endpoints and actually host this model in real time so I could build a service that hits that on demand. that gets really expensive very quickly, so I'm not gonna actually do that, but that's where you would do it from. So that's pretty neat, that's a model from end to end in SageMaker Canvas. If I go back to my models here, I can actually see a little card for my model there that I just created, so I can do stuff with it, view it, or rename it, or delete it, or whatever I need to do. Under ML Ops, that's another way to actually set up those deployments to set up inference models. And what else can we look at? Ready to use. So just to go through some other capabilities of Canvas here, they also have these built-in things that are built on top of the higher-level AI services that AWS has to offer. So for example, if I wanted to play around with object detection in images. All I can, all I have to do is use Amazon recognition for that, right? I don't have to go off and build a model, they already have a model. So let's click on that. And it brings up this UI where I can do a one-off single prediction on an image and tells me what's in it. If you have your own image, you can do that see what I got. What's in my photo? My pictures folder here that I might use It's a picture of of some dude in front of a radio telescope. Huh, interesting. So it identified a face ahead of person and Hat, some sunglasses, and it says I'm a man. You're right. oh, you got that one wrong though. That's not a person, that's some sort of a hose there. But, you know, these, these models aren't perfect. But there you have it, kind of a way to play around with some of these. And if I wanted to actually use this for something more useful, I can set up a batch prediction where I give it a data set of images to do object detection on. And that's just one of many of those built-in, ready-to-use models, right? So we can also do object detection, we can do sentiment analysis, language detection, text detection, entity detection, any of this stuff. Built on top of Comprehend recognition or TextTract in these cases. And also there's a new GenAI button And this is just, you know, a standard chatbot interface for doing stuff using AI. I mean, it's just like any other chatbot really. You can choose what foundation model you wanna be playing with, in this case Claude 2 is the default I'm sure there'll be newer ones added shortly 'cause Claude three point five is currently the state of the art as of this recording. but yeah, that's the SageMaker Canvas in a nutshell. Remember to log out when you're done 'cause this does consume resources while you're using it, and this will warn you about anything that you might have still running that's still gonna be racking up charges. Very important to, very important to make sure that any endpoints you set up aren't still running if you don't want them, 'cause that's gonna keep on running. And also very important is to remember to log out.