# Amazon Comprehend - Hands On

## Amazon Comprehend - Hands On

So let's have a look at Amazon Comprehend. So it's a natural language processing tool to look at some text and process it. So here we have the option to play with it in a console. So let's remove this right now, which is around the spa experience, and we'll just have this message where we have a financial company which says to this person that they have a minimum payment due. So we analyze this and we get some results. So first of all, entities are extracted from your text. So this is unstructured data, of course, but after using Comprehend, it is going to be structured. So the entities, for example, is that Zeng Wei is a person, and so is John. We found an organization named Any Company Financial Services, and then we found some quantities, we found some dates, and then some things are written as other, so this doesn't know what it is just yet. But if we look at key phrases, we can have a look at the most important ones in the text. If we look at the language, we can see that it's a ninety-nine percent chance that this is in English, and yes, it is in English. Look at PII, so personally identifiable information, analysis mode, then automatically the Comprehend service was able to detect that we have two persons' names, so they are of course PII. We also have a credit card account number, and we have a due date, and we have a bank account number and a routing number. And so all these things are considered PII and are being detected by Amazon Comprehend, which could be very handy if you're trying to process the data in batch. For sentiment, this is about to understand what is the tone. So this looks right now that this is neutral at ninety-nine percent confidence. It's neither positive or negative or mixed. And of course, this is just an information text, so this is why this is classified as neutral. But this sentiment analysis can come very handy if you're trying, for example, to build a customer service app and to understand the quality of the interaction between your support agents and your customers. Targeted sentiment is about understanding how the sentiment was being built, and syntax is to understand the syntax, the grammatical syntax of this entire sentence. For example, what is a noun, what is a proper noun, what is punctuation, and so on. So this is comprehend in a gist we can do analysis job where we can analyze a lot of data at once from Amazon S3, and then we can do custom classification. So for a custom classification, it's about you having to create custom categories, and as can comprehend, to classify your incoming text based on these categories. This can be very handy, for example, if you have a support service and you're trying to understand, for example, if the question of your customer is around the billing, or is around product support, or if it's a feature request, or if it's an account problem, and so on. So you would create these categories, and comprehend can categorize things for you. So I want you to just be option. So you create a new model, and then you have to provide what's called training data. So you need to train Comprehend to make it understand how you want things to be classified. So here they talk about comedy and drama, where they give examples. So this is some text, a long text, and we said this is comedy. Or this is a long, long text, again, this is comedy. And this other text right here, now this is drama. So you would, for example, for your business, provide maybe ten emails from customers asking you about billing issues, for example, the credit card isn't working, or they want to understand their bills, or whatever. And you would create this CSV file You would train, comprehend on it. So you need to have ten documents for each class you wanna classify, but of course, the more data, the more, the better. And then you put it on Amazon S3, you would train this classifier and automatically, comprehend will now be able to classify data for you, which can be very handy. And then once you have built your classifier, you need to purchase what's called a custom endpoint, and this will allow you to perform requests right here, to conduct real-time analysis and to perform requests to analyze your documents and classify them in real time, and this can be very handy. From a customer service purpose, but anytime you also need to classify data that is text-based. So I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.


