# AWS Glue Studio

There are a few new features in AWS Glue. They seem to be investing a lot in this feature right now, so I'm not sure you're gonna see this on the exam quite yet, but you probably will soon. So one of these new features is called AWS Glue Studio. Basically, it's a visual interface for defining and creating ETL workflows. So it allows you to create these more complex workflows where you might have multiple things happening in parallel from the same source, or maybe different sources being processed in parallel in different ways. It lets you set up these complex jobs in a visual manner and often without writing any code, so it offers you this visual job editor that I'll show you in a moment that allows you to create directed acyclic graphs for complex workflows like this, and the sources of that currently can con-include S3 or Kinesis or Kafka or any JDBC source as well. You can then graphically set up transforms of that data in the Glue Studio UI, so you can do transformations, you can sample the data, you can join tables together, and a few other things as well. And then you can take the output of that transform and send it to S3 or the Glue Data Catalog. It also supports partitioning out of the box, so if you do have partitioned data, it'll automatically take advantage of that and accelerate itself accordingly. Also, it offers a visual job dashboard that lets you visualize the status of your Glue ETL jobs and how they're running, what's running, how long they've been taking, so that could be useful for quick troubleshooting and making sure that your jobs are running as expected. Let's dive in and show you how it actually works. So I want to give you a little bit of a quick tour here of Glue Studio. It's it's a little bit hard to find these days because in some places they call it Glue Studio and other places they call it Visual ETL. And there are a couple of ways. One would be from this Go to ETL Jobs button here or from the little sidebar here, it's under Visual ETL, under ETL Jobs. And you can see now we're calling it Glue Studio again. Let's click on the Visual ETL button just to give you a little bit of a tour here. And you can see that the list of sources has grown considerably over time, so it's not just Glue Data Catalog, S3, Kinesis, and Kafka. Pretty much any data source you can imagine, even if it's outside of Amazon, is fair game. So, so any external database, MySQL, Microsoft SQL, whatever you can imagine, even Snowflake, Google BigQuery, and a few competing vendors, even Azure. MongoDB, Zoom, third-party tools like QuickBooks or LinkedIn, I think even Salesforce, PayPal, something like that, the list goes on, so pretty much any data you can imagine is fair game for this studio. So we start off by adding a note for a source. Let's just keep it simple and say it's something that I have in S3. Just click on that note, go to Data Source, and tell it where it is. So I'll just pick one of the Data sources that we had from earlier in the course under order logs, order logs and dot salt, so that's where that data is coming in. And now if we look at the output schema, it will tell me what that data looks like. Okay. So now we can do stuff to transform that data. Let's go ahead and click on that and click on plus and add a transform node. And you can see there's many, many different things you can do here as well. So we can do change the schema, SQL queries. Filters, shopping things. The ability for writing your own custom code somewhere. There it is, custom transform. But let's just do something simple and just change the schema, which lets you do a lot of common things. So, let's say I just want to drop the description field. Change the year to an integer, change the day to an integer, you know, whatever you want to do Just playing around here. And that will do what you expect, so click on that, and you can also look at the output schema there as well to make sure it did what you said. the description's gone, year and day are now an integer. And let's also apply a filter to that. So let's do a transform filter. And you could say, for example, add a condition. So you want to filter everything out where the year is less than 2001. It's just that simple. Alright, click on that, you can see the output schema is the same, you just filtered out some data. And now we can put that somewhere. So let's click on plus again and add a target, and let's just dump that in S3 as well. Again, you can see that there's many other places you can send this to, including Snowflake, BigQuery Azure, they don't care. Pretty amazing. But let's just make another S3 bucket, and then I could specify what bucket I wanna put that in, right? And by the way it doesn't have to be linear like this. So this is actually a directed acyclic graph. So you could have things happening in parallel alongside each other. I could click back up here and Do that filter in parallel instead of after that transformer if I wanted to, so you can have these more Complicated structures where processing is happening in parallel may be even more efficient if that makes sense for what you're doing. It doesn't have to be linear like this. Alright, so that's the Blue Studio just to kind of show you what it is and what it can do. Let's go back Yeah Read this page. And from here you can monitor your existing jobs and see what they're doing, last time they changed, and everything else, and those are some examples you can look at as well. That's Blue Studio. I don't think they're kinda pushing people more toward Data Wrangler these days, but it's still there for you also known as Visual ETL.