# Amazon DynamoDB

There's Now let's have a look at dynamically no SQL serverless databases. So if you consider the traditional architecture I've seen in and out in this course, we have clients and they connect to an application layer that could be made of an elastic balancer and EC2 instances that are grouped and scaling within a just scale group, and then the data has to be stored somewhere, so we have a database layer and it could be using Amazon RDS, which is backed by MySQL or PostgreSQL technologies. Now these traditional applications will leverage RDS databases. And we do so because we have the SQL query language, it's really good, and then we can define strong requirements about how the data should be modeled, because we have tables, we have schemas and so on. We can do joins, aggregations, complex computations, and that's all very good and working. What we get out of it, though, in case of scaling, is mostly vertical scaling. So in case you want a better database, and I'm talking just about database layer right now, if you want to scale it vertically, you need to replace the database and get a more powerful CPU, more RAM or better disk with I/O, and you can do some sort of horizontal scaling, but this is by only increasing the read capability, so either by adding EC2 instances at the application layer or By adding RDS free replicas as a database layer, but if you add replicas, you're going to be limited by the number of replicas you can have and therefore limited into your horizontal read scaling. And I'm not talking about horizontal write scaling because you don't have that with RDS. So introducing to you no SQL databases, which means not only SQL or non-SQL databases, depending on the definition. So the idea is that they are non-relational databases and they're going to be distributed, which gives us some horizontal scalability. And some very famous technologies that have no SQL or non-SQL databases are MongoDB and of course DynamoDB. Now, these databases don't support query joins or have very limited support and so forth. Simplicity, just assume that we don't have query joins. Now, all the data that is needed therefore must be present in one row in your database. And again, to simplify things, I know they're evolving, but let's just assume that NoSQL databases also don't perform aggregation computations, like the sum or the average and so on. But the good thing out of it is that thanks to the design, the NoSQL databases will scale horizontally. That means that if you need more write or read capacity, you can Behind the scenes, have more instances and it will scale really well. So there's no right or wrong for NoSQL versus SQL, it just depends on how you think about your modeling, your data, about your application, about your user queries, and about your scaling needs. So let's talk about DynamoDB now. So DynamoDB is a fully managed NoSQL database, and it's highly available and has replications across multiple AZs and availability zones. So it's a NoSQL database, it's not a relational database, so it's different than RDS. It scales to massive workload and it's fully distributed, that means you can scale to millions of requests per second, trillions of row, and hundreds of terabytes of storage, regardless of your workload. So fast and consistent performance, so then you get really low latency on retrieval, and it's AWS service, so it's going to be fully integrated with IAM for security, authorization, and administration. You can enable even during programming with DynamoDB Streams, as we'll see in a section, it's low cost, it has auto scaling capability, and you have the standard and infrequent access IA table class for different storage tiers. So let's have a look at the basics of DynamoDB. So DynamoDB is made out of tables, and each table will have a primary key, and we'll see what the primary key can be in the next slide. You must decide what the primary key is before you create your table. Now, each table can have an infinite number of rows, also called items, so I will use rows and items interchangeably in this course, and each item will have attributes. Now, these attributes are pretty similar to the columns in your table, okay? But these attributes can also be nested, so it's a bit more powerful than columns, and they can be added over time, which you define them all at creation time on your table, and some of them can be null, so it's totally fine for attributes to be missing in some data. Now, and each item or each row will have up to four hundred kilobytes of data, so it's a limitation. And data type, data type supported are going to be scalar types, so string, number, binary, boolean, and null. There's going to be document types, so lists and maps, so you can do some kind of nesting capability, and sets, categorized as string sets, number sets, and binary sets. Now, a very important point to understand is how to choose a primary key for DynamoDB, and the exam will definitely test you on the knowledge about this. So you have two options for primary keys, and the first one is called a partition key, which is also called a hash strategy. So the partition key in this case will be unique for each item, which is very similar to a normal database, and therefore the partition key must be diverse enough so that your data is going to be distributed. For example, if you consider user ID for a user's table, then you can have a partition key as the user ID, the attributes being first name, last name, and age, and then you have your first user ID with some attributes being filled out. Your second user ID, you can see, doesn't have a last name, but this is fine in database ID, and the third partition key yet again has three attributes attached to it. So this is what the table looks like. It looks like a database for now, it's very easy. But you can have a second version of partition key and sort key, also called hash plus range, and now the combination of these two items must be unique for each item. So the database is going to be rooted by partition key, so that's why we're going to choose a partition key. So if you consider a user's game table, then user ID for the partition key and game ID for the sort key, let's see what happens. That means that users can attend both events. So we have a user ID For common attributes, the first one is going to be our partition key, the one that has been grouped, that is ready, and the second attribute is going to be the key that is going to give us the uniqueness of the combination of partition key and sort key. So both of them are going to be the common attribute, and the rest are attribute attributes. So if you consider a user ready, then it has a sort key of the, the game ID, and then the attribute score ninety two result went, again, another different user ID and another different game ID, so this works as well. You have a user game result fourteen, and more in, in this third row, what we have is that we have the same partition key, okay? So row two and three have the same partition key, but a different sort key. Of course, it is fine for a user to send multiple games, as the fourth row, the combination of ready and game ID is unique, obviously, but it's fine to also have the same partition key and different sort key. And this is why it's super important to choose a really good partition key so the data is going to be distributed enough. So here's an exercise, and this is what the example is. So you're building a movie database, and you want to choose the best partition key that's going to maximize data distribution. Is it movie ID? Is it producer name? Is it leader acronym? Or is it movie language? Well, think about it for a second. Why don't you choose the first one, the second one, and so on? Now the answer is you choose movie ID, because movie ID is going to be unique for each row, and therefore it's a really good candidate key to partition your table once. But if you have a movie language as a source of partition key, then you won't have as many languages as many values once, and maybe most of your values are going to be towards English, so it's not going to be a great choice because there's not enough diversity, and there's too much data towards one specific value. And so the example asks you to choose the best partition key for some tables based on what it is. So always choose the one with the highest cardinality and one that can become the most number of values. So that's it for a short overview of the long section. Let's go over the hands-on to practice with this using MongoDB.