# Amazon Bedrock Overview

Alright, as promised, let's dive into generative AI fundamentals and Amazon Bedrock, which is basically the fundamental service of AWS for generative AI. Now, before we talk about Bedrock, well, what is that Bedrock? It's the foundation models that we're building these applications on top of. So, foundation models are giant pre-trained transformer models, and we might be fine-tuning those for specific tasks, we might be using them as components that we're building larger systems around or AGI systems around. What are some examples? So, the one you're probably most familiar with is like GPT, whatever number it is, this week from OpenAI. That's a foundation model, so you can build systems around that. Something that's more available within Amazon is Claude from Anthropic, you're probably familiar with that as well. Same idea, you know, it's this giant large language model that can sound pretty darn intelligent, and you can build applications around it. That's a foundation model On the image side, we have DALL-E from OpenAI, which can be used for generating images. Llama is Meta's or Facebook's offering in the LLM space as well. DeepSeek from China getting a lot of buzz, so also a good LLM, a foundation model, and Amazon has its own as well with Amazon Nova and also Amazon Titan. So different models have different strengths and for different purposes. Jurassic two, you don't really see a whole lot about anymore, it does show up a little bit on the AI foundation exam, but not so much this one, I don't think. That was more about multilingual large language models, so for generating text across different languages. Claude is a, a more popular one, so that's definitely a popular choice within Amazon Bedrock. It's a large language model, you know, you're familiar with it if you've used anything like ChatGPT, really good one good for answering questions, and it's also good at workflow automation, so you might have heard of Claude Code, that's an example of Using Claude to actually drive much larger workflows and doing more complex agentic tasks, so it really excels at that sort of a thing. For image generation Stable Diffusion is one option, and again, Llama, another competing LLM from Meta, also a good contender. Amazon's Titan model is more about generating what we call embeddings, so kind of like extracting the meaning from chunks of text. So it can summarize text, it can generate text, it can do Q&A, but Titan is really more about embedding, so basically translating pieces of text into these large vectors that embody their meaning. And we'll see how that becomes important with retrieval augmented generation in a little bit. Also, Amazon Nova Reels is a cool one that's a little bit more recent that's for generating video using AWS. So what is Amazon Bedrock? So Bedrock has basically built a subtraction layer around all these foundational models, so that's pretty cool, right? So they have a single unified API where you can swap these foundation models in and out and use whatever ones you want. And this is important because foundation models come and go, right? New better ones are coming out all the time, so you don't really wanna be coding specifically against any one of them. So that's pretty cool. it allows you to invoke chat, text, or image models, so it's all multimodal. You can also build it around your own models, your own pre-built models or your own fine-tuned models. Built from one of these foundational models. And the way it works is that, yeah, Bedrock has its own costs, but basically they're a marketplace, so they're basically being this layer between you and the foundation model. And the usage that you have of the underlying foundation model, which might not be from Amazon, right? It might be from Anthropic or from Meta or somebody else they will bill you directly through the Amazon On billing platform, so you gotta make sure you understand what the actual pricing and costs are for these foundation models you're using, because they will be billed you separately from just raw AWS usage. When I say separately, you're not gonna get a separate bill from them, it's still gonna be part of your AWS bill but it will be billed on its own terms, its own usage through the AWS marketplace. Also, they have this really fancy system in Bedrock for retrieval augmented generation, they call it knowledge bases, we're gonna talk about more, more about that shortly, and it has some very cool features around LLM agents that you can build around these foundation models as well. So they basically built a standardized API around these models that let you build cool stuff up, that's what Bedrock is, and it's completely serverless. So the really cool thing is you don't have to worry about managing and maintaining servers and keeping s-system software up to date and all that stuff, all that's been abstracted away from you with Amazon Bedrock. Also, it has a lot of integration points with SageMaker, so if you do want more fine-tuned control over how you're deploying this stuff and how you're, you know, tweaking it, tuning it you can do that from within SageMaker as well, and we have a whole section of the course coming up on that. So Bedrock is, can be used from a, a visual standpoint from the console, it also has an API if you wanna do things from an actual application standpoint. So there is a Bedrock API endpoint that lets you manage, deploy, and train models, you know, fine-tune them if you want to. So you can do that through the, the console or you can do it through the API. Bedrock runtime, probably a little bit more useful from an API standpoint, this is where you're gonna be performing inference, so actually calling your underlying foundation models, calling the applications that you built on Bedrock, and getting a response back from them. So that will allow you to execute a prompt and get a response back. Generated embedding vectors, whatever it might be, against these models. And there are four main entry points to Bedrock runtime. First, for basically chatting, right? Converse stream, which is just gonna be kind of that real time feedback that you get as it's generating text. Invoke model, if you just wanna kick off a model, and invoke model with response stream, again, you know, the runtime, the real time version of that as well. Then we have Bedrock agent, which is about using these larger agentic systems you might be building with Bedrock around these foundation models. So you might have multiple models running in parallel doing different stuff, right? So Bedrock Agent will let you manage and deploy and potentially train those agents and also the underlying knowledge bases that they're using as tools. So agents are more about just running in parallel, it's also giving tools to your systems, your GenAI application, giving them external knowledge, giving them external information and the ability to do stuff on the internet or on your local computer. So Bedrock Agent is the API endpoint around that stuff. And then we have Bedrock Agent Runtime, which allows you to actually use those agents, so performing inference against those agents and knowledge bases. Invoke an agent and say, okay, here's my prompt, go do some agentic stuff to make it happen. You can also use retrieve and retrieve and generate if you're more interested in getting the underlying knowledge base information. So if you want to hit that underlying knowledge base vector store, get information back from it, there's an API for that as well. Talk a little bit about permissions. So you do need to be careful if you're using Bedrock, if you use it with an IAM user, don't use it as your root account. So resist the temptation to log into the console with your root account and start playing with Bedrock. It might work at first, but it ain't gonna work for long. So, of course That's the hard way. You of course need to make sure that user has relevant Bedrock permissions, so Bedrock full access or Bedrock read only, depending on what you wanna do. You know, if you do wanna be developing using that user, full access would make sense. If you're just going to be using that system and reading from it, read only might make more sense. Model access. So like you said, there's kind of this menu of underlying models you can use, foundation models with Bedrock, how do I get access to them? It used to be that if you wanted to use a model, you had to explicitly request access to it, agree to its terms, and agree to its billing. they are phasing that out as of this recording, so this, this slide is probably already out of date. going forward, you can just use any model in the, in the catalog and be able to automatically start building your board. So they are phasing out that extra step there. However, do be sure to check the pricing. At aws.amazon.com/slash-bedrock/slash-pricing, since different models cost different amounts of money, and as we'll see later in the course, a big part of optimizing these systems is making sure you're choosing the right model for the job and not paying for more power than you need. This will all make a lot more sense if we play around with it, and conveniently, Bedrock has a playground, so let's play. Mm-hm.

Next: [A quick note on model access](../a-quick-note-on-model-access/index.md)