# AWS Glue

All right, let's talk about AWS Glue, which is for building your table definitions and performing ETL, extract, transform, and loading of your data automatically. Now, Glue is a huge deal on the exam right now. So back when they removed all the machine learning content from the AWS Big Data exam, it was called at the time, into its own exam for machine learning, they kind of filled that gap mostly with more content about Glue and Redshift. So Glue really plays a major role in the exam today, so it's very important to pay attention to this section. There's not really a whole lot you need to know about Glue but you need to really internalize it and understand how it connects all these different services together and how it might be used as pieces of larger applications. So what is Glue all about? Well, it's a serverless system, so again, you know, there's nothing you need to maintain there, that will automatically handle discovery and definition of table definitions and schema. So its main use is to serve as a central metadata repository for your data lake. It will discover those schemas out of your unstructured data sitting in S3 or whatever, and publish table definitions for use with analysis tools such as Athena or Redshift or EMR. So again, the purpose of Glue itself. Is to extract structure from your unstructured data. If you have data sitting in a data lake in S3, it can provide a schema for that so that you can query it using SQL or SQL-like tools, including RDS and Redshift and Athena and Amazon EMR and pretty much any other SQL database that can use a schema like that. The other thing Glue does is custom ETL jobs. So once it discovers that schema, it can do some processing of it for you. This can be trigger driven, you know, based on when that data is received, or on a schedule, or on demand, and it's fully managed. So again, there's no s-uh, services for you to maintain, no hardware for you to maintain. The ETL jobs use Apache Spark under the hood. Haven't talked about that yet, but Spark is a very popular system for distributed data processing. but you, you don't need to manage the Spark cluster, which is really nice. So you have the entire power of Apache Spark behind you with Glue ETL. Without having to manage that Spark cluster, which is a really, really nice thing. So one piece of it is the Glue Crawler and Data Catalog which it populates. So the purpose of the Amazon Glue Crawler is to scan data in S3, and often it will infer that schema automatically just based on the data that it sees sitting there, but sometimes you have to give it some hints. You can schedule that to run periodically if you need to, and what that does is populate the Glue Data Catalog. So we have data sitting in S3, Glue can periodically or on demand scan that data and construct a schema of it. Again, that's just the table definition, you know, what are the columns of data in that information that you have stored there in an unstructured manner, what's their data types things like that. Column names, they can infer that as well, where it's stored, that's all important information as well. And it uses that information to allow things like Redshift, Athena, or systems running on EMR like Hive to query your unstructured data in S3 as if it were structured data, just like it were a, a traditional relational database. Now, the data itself remains where it was originally, so the data stays in S3. You're not duplicating that data, we're not copying it into an actual database table somewhere else. We're just using Glue to basically provide the glue between these relational database interfaces and the unstructured data lake that's sitting back here in S3. Once catalogued, that data is im-inmediately available for analysis, and we'll build this out and go into a lot more detail to these systems later on. And then, you know, once you actually have that data sitting in something like Athena, you can use something like Amazon QuickSight to visualize that data. So Glue, again, is the glue between your unstructured data and structured data analytics tools. So let's talk about Glue and S3 partitions really quickly here. So it's not entirely magic, you know, you do need to think about how you're going to structure your unstructured data. I know that sounds backwards, but the way that you organize your data will affect how efficient Glue can work and how efficiently your systems can query this unstructured data. Now, the Glue Crawler will extract partitions of your data based on how your S3 data is organized. So you want to think up front about how you're gonna be querying your data lake in S3. What those partitions should represent for the best performance. So for example, let's imagine that you have devices sending sensor data into your system, into your data lake every hour, just dumping raw data into S3 So think about how are you gonna use that data? Are you querying primarily by time ranges? If so, then you want to partition based on those time ranges, right? So you'd want to organize your S3 buckets as year, followed by month, followed by date, followed by device, okay? That way, you know, we can start by windowing things down by the year and further by the month, furthermore by the date, and then finally by the device that generated that data. That will allow the partitions to really allow us to efficiently access data for a given date. Without having to slog through all the other information for other dates that we don't care about. On the other hand, if you're querying primarily by device and not by time, you might want to put the device up first. That way, your primary partition would be the device ID and then followed by the year, month, and date. So if you're gonna be querying for specific individual devices all the time, and that's kind of the primary thing you wanna partition on, you'd wanna make that the top level bucket that you're organizing your data under within S3. So this is something that you might see in the exam. What's the optimal way to organize your data that's being stored on S3 such that Glue can extract that and present it as partitions that make sense for what you're gonna do with it? 

